# ENTM6820_Project

Abstract: Soybean grown in Alabama is at risk of viral infection that may affect the crop yield each growing season. Viruses in Alabama include Tobacco streak virus, Soybean vein necrosis virus, Soybean mosaic virus, and Bean pod mottle virus; spread by a variety of insects, including soybean thrips, aphids, and bean leaf beetles, respectively. It was hypothesized that a soybean viral survey across the state of Alabama would reveal viruses in the soybean fields as well as the insects responsible for transmitting the viruses. Six collection spots were determined across the state of Alabama, with each location being sampled twice across the growing season. It was discovered that the only all viruses were positively identified. Insect collection numbers were also recorded and showed Thrips as the most prevelant among those sampled in 2021.

In this repository you will find several files related to the above abstract. These files will be explained below.
1) Bug 1 - This is an excel table showing the number of collected thrips, bean leaf beetles, and aphids from the first sampling collection at each of the chosen sites
2) Bug 2 - This is an excel table showing the number of collected thrips, bean leaf beetles, and aphids from the second sampling collection at each of the chosen sites
3) Soy 1 - This is an excel table showing which viruses were identified at each location across the first sampled collection. This was referred to for creation of dataframe used in the final Rmd
4) Soy 2 - This is an excel table showing which viruses were identified at each location across the first sampled collection. This was referred to for creation of dataframe used in the final Rmd.
5) Soybean Finalized Project - This Rmd file can be used to visualize the data collected during this experiment. The first two chunks show the creation of dataframes for the data of Soy1 and Soy2. The code in these chunks create tables for each viral collection. The next chunks are used to import the excel Bug 1 and Bug 2 and convert the data into a bar graph showing the three types of insects collected at each location, along with their total numbers from each collection. Farther down are sections of code which can create the same bar-graphs, but without the total number of insects collected. This may be preferrential depending on your aesthetic choices. At the bottom of this Rmd is the data in a stacked-bar graph. This is also just a choice of aesthetics when it comes to presenting the data.
